Nav.Ai

This Python script converts a PDF document into a detailed screenplay using OpenAI's GPT-3.5-turbo-0125 model. The script processes the PDF in chunks, arranges the text into Acts and Scenes, and generates a formatted screenplay with dialogue, adhering to standard screenplay conventions. The Gradio interface allows users to easily upload a PDF, input their OpenAI API key, and download the generated screenplay.

Features

Read PDF: Extracts text from a PDF file.
Chunk Processing: Splits the text into chunks of 2000 words.
Acts and Scenes: Arranges the text into Acts and Scenes.
Screenplay Conversion: Converts each Act into a 1000-word screenplay with dialogue.
File Management: Saves each Act as a separate file and combines them into a final screenplay.
Standard Screenplay Format: Ensures the final screenplay adheres to standard formatting rules.
User Interface: Gradio interface for easy interaction and downloading of the final screenplay.
Prerequisites

Python 3.6+
OpenAI API key
Required Python packages: openai, PyPDF2, gradio
Installation

Clone the Repository:

bash
Copy code
git clone https://github.com/thatlawyerfellow/Nav.Ai.git
cd Nav.Ai
Install the Required Packages:

bash
Copy code
pip install openai PyPDF2 gradio
Usage

Run the Script:

bash
Copy code
python pdf_to_screenplay.py
Open the Interface:

The script will launch a local web server and open a web browser with the Gradio interface. If it doesn't open automatically, look for the URL in the terminal output and paste it into your web browser.
Use the Interface:

Enter your OpenAI API key.
Upload the PDF file you want to convert.
The script will process the PDF and save the final screenplay as output.txt.
A download link for output.txt will be provided in the interface.
Detailed Code Explanation

Imports
The script imports necessary libraries (openai, PdfReader from PyPDF2, warnings to suppress specific warnings, os, and gradio for the interface).

Suppress Warnings
Suppress specific warnings related to InsecureRequestWarning and NotOpenSSLWarning.

read_pdf Function
Reads the content of the specified PDF file and returns it as a string.

split_text_into_chunks Function
Splits the input text into chunks of 2000 words and yields each chunk.

generate_prompt Function
Generates a prompt in the format required by the OpenAI API.

call_openai_api Function
Makes a call to the OpenAI API using the generated prompt and returns the content of the API's response.

convert_pdf_to_screenplay Function
Reads the PDF.
Processes it into chunks.
Arranges the chunks into acts and scenes.
Converts them into a screenplay.
Saves each scene to a file.
Combines all scenes into a single screenplay file.
gradio_interface Function
Handles user input and runs the conversion process.

Gradio Interface
Creates the Gradio interface with inputs for the API key and PDF file, and an output for the final screenplay file path.

Example Output

The final screenplay will be saved as output.txt in the same directory as the script. Y Each Act and Scene will be formatted according to standard screenplay conventions. The download link will be provided in the Gradio interface.

Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please open an issue or submit a pull request.

